ladies and gentlemen from the East Room
of the White House the President of the
United States and mrs. Reagan ladies and
gentlemen
fellow Americans this is a wonderful
occasion an annual occasion here in
Washington when we turn on the nation's
Christmas tree Christmas of course is I
think for all of us is it is a time of
memories of our own childhood our
children grandchildren but anyway it is
a time of children and so here tonight
we're surrounded by children I'm happy
to say here in the East Room of the
White House
maybe it's fitting that children should
be here and that Christmas is a time for
children because the man whose birthday
we celebrate in this season came to us
the Prince of Peace not in a chariot but
as a babe in a manger I know there are
some who celebrate this day as the
Christmas Day is the birthday of a great
teacher and philosopher to others of us
is more than that he is also divine but
to all of us he taught us the way that
we could have peace on earth and
goodwill to men and that is if we would
do unto others as we would have others
do unto us and now this button here in
this box has been used for turning on
the National Christmas tree since 1923 I
believe it was when President Coolidge
first did it it didn't always get turned
on here in the White House sometimes it
was outdoors and down where the tree is
and sometimes it wasn't even in
Washington Harry Truman turned the tree
on once with this same switch from
Independence Missouri Franklin Delano
Roosevelt turned it on at times from
Hyde Park
but it's going to be turned on here from
Washington I had hoped that in fact I
one day said that our grandchild
cam and Michael might be able to push
the button but he's 3,000 miles away all
these children are here and I couldn't
pick one of them out of all of this
number to push the button so I'm going
to have to do it myself
and in doing it we all know that this
Christmas is not as happy for some
Americans as it could be not as happy
for some people out in other parts of
the world we'd had other Christmases in
our land the first one was when we were
a nation in 1976 and Washington led his
men across the Delaware River in a
battle that set the stage for our
independence and legend has it that the
path of their march through the snow
one of blood-stained footprints but we
shall live with the hope and the promise
of the man of Galilee that Christmases
will be better and that we will have
peace and goodwill among men and now the
tree is lighted you want to look around
and you can see the tree over there and
they monitor there
is all right
[Music]